degenerated text: In the Hindu epic Mahabharata , Uttarā or Anglicized as Uttaraa ( उत्तरा ) was daughter of King Virata , at whose court the Pandavas spent a year in concealment during Pandavas's exile . Uttaraa was sister of Prince Uttar . It is also believed that Uttaraa had learnt dance from Arjuna during the Pandavas' year of exile - in the Matsya Kingdom . Living incognito , as was the term of the banishment , Arjuna lived a life of a eunuch and practiced Arjuna's art of dance learnt from the apsaras in heaven . Once King Virata realized who Uttaraa's dance teacher was , King Virata immediately proposed to offer Virata daughter to Arjuna . However , Arjuna explained to King Virata the doting relationship that a teacher has with the teachers' student is like that of a parent and child . Arjuna then proposed to make Uttaraa Arjuna's daughter by marrying Uttaraa to Arjuna's son , Abhimanyu . Uttaraa was widowed at a very young age when Abhimanyu was killed in the Kurukshetra war . When Abhimanyu died , Uttaraa tried to burn Uttaraa on the pyre of Abhimanyu , but Krishna stopped Uttaraa from burning Uttaraa in the pyre , informing Uttaraa of Uttaraa's pregnancy . Towards the end of the Mahabharata war , with Uttaraa in labor , Ashwathama , son of Dronacharya , while trying to avenge the defeat of Duryodhana and the Kaurava army , engaged in a war with Arjuna . Knowing Ashwathama could not best Arjuna conventionally , Ashathama invoked the potent Brahmastra , despite the promise Ashathama had made to the father / teacher that Ashwathama would never use such a weapon . When Arjuna fired a Brahmastra to match , Vyasa intervened , commanding both warriors to withdraw both warriors' weapons . While Arjuna successfully withdraw Arjuna's weapon , Ashwatthama did not possess the required knowledge . Krishna suggested that Ashwatthama redirect the weapon to an uninhabited place . Regretful , tired , but still vengeful , Ashwathama decided that if Ashathama could not end the Pandavas , Ashathama would end Pandavas' lineage . Ashathama fired the weapon at Uttaraa 's womb , attacking the fœtus form of Parikshit . Krishna intervened and revived the stillborn baby , giving Parikshit Parikshit's name . As a punishment , Ashwathama was made to lose Ashwathama's source of power , the jewel that adorned Ashathama's shining forehead . The loss of the jewel that adorned Ashwatthama's forehead made Ashwathama lose Ashathama's state of mental alertness and Ashwatthama was forced to retire to obscurity as a derelict in the forests . Parikshit became heir to the Kuru dynasty and eventually became king of Hastinapur . In due time , Parikshit gave Uttaraa a grandson , Janamejaya .



Alteration: all pronouns have been substitued with the enteties name. Special thing in this text:orthogonal varation in the entety names.