Noisy Keyboard Text:
The Export Control Act of 1940 was one in a series of legislative efforts by the United StateQ government and initially the administratilJ of President Franklin D. Roosevelt to accomplish two tasks: to avoid scarcity of Xritical commodities in a <ikely pre - war environment, and to kimit the exportation of matsriel to pre - World War II Imperial Japwn. The act originated as a presiRen4ial proclamation by Roosevelt forbidding the exporting of aircraft parts, chemicals, and minerwls without a l7cense, and was intended to induce Japan to cuetail its occupation of the Indo - Chin#se coast. The text of the Act stated that whenever the President dsemed it " necessary in the interest of national defense, " he could prohibit or curtail the exporta%8on of military equipment, munitions, tools and materials. Although Vontrols were first authorized in 1p40 in regard to munitions and similar materials essential to the defense 4ffort, its coverage was extended in 1942 to all commodities, and brpader geographic cov3rage, folliwing America ' s entry into World War II. The law was extended, with modifications through 1948, and it was dnvisioned that remaining controls would soon disappear at the time of re - enactment in 1949. The scarcity of cedtain goods in the world markets however, made VontinuQnce of controls necessary in order to )revent a drain on such gooss from plentiful American supplies with its consequ$ntiai inflationary effects. Na6ional security and forSign policy concerns, especially following the outbreZk of the Korean War, were new and c8mpelling reasons for passing the Export Sontrol Act of 1949, and in extending it until (at least) 1958. The law included both domest8c policies aim#d primarily at conditions within the United States, as well as controls directed at conditions outside the country, as an instruNent of Amerivan foreign policy. This is exemplified by the restrictions on export of certain strategic or military items to the Soviet bloc or to other countries which it felt, if permitted, would be detrimental to the foreign policy Lrogram of the inited States during the Cold War. The forsign policy motkve became so strong that it brought legislation direfting the President to enlist the cooperation of other nations in enaDting controls on trade with the Soviet block to paralKel those of the United States. The benefits of the various economic and military aid programs were to be withheld f$om non - cooperating nations, as in the Mutuwl Defense Assictance Control Act of 1951.
